*__Abstract-__ This research was conducted to create a control system in the form of a GUI application that will facilitate the process of programming an Arduino-based robotic arm prototype to be able to move from one position to another. The created GUI application runs on the Windows operating system connected to Arduino via serial communication. The robotic arm control system combines teach-pendant and lead-through methods. With these 2 methods, the system can control the robotic arm by providing a 3-dimensional coordinate input (teach-pendant) or positioning the robotic arm directly (lead-through) and saving the position as an Arduino input. After storing some inputs, the robotic arm can be moved according to the input given. The teach-pendant method is made based on inverse kinematics analysis because it has to convert inputs from 3-dimensional coordinate shapes (x, y, z) to the size of the joint angles (γ, α, β) of the robotic arm. The lead-through method is created by storing the size of the joint angle of the robotic arm from the resistance value of the potentiometer directly connected with the axis of the motor. After all the data or inputs in the GUI application are saved, the robotic arm can be run according to the size of the joint angle that has been obtained. After 5 tests, the robotic arm prototype successfully moved the workpiece to a well-intended position. The measurement results show a fairly good end-effector accuracy when laying the workpiece.*


### Download
1. [Windows Form App](https://minhaskamal.github.io/DownGit/#/home?url=https://github.com/saandhikaa/robotic-arm/tree/main/VisualBasic-Code/My_Controller_Flat_UI/bin/Debug).
2. [Arduino Code](https://minhaskamal.github.io/DownGit/#/home?url=https://github.com/saandhikaa/robotic-arm/tree/main/Arduino-Code).
